# Serverless Computing for IoT

Serverless computing is a cloud-computing execution model in which the cloud provider acts as the server, dynamically managing the allocation of machine resources.  Serverless Computing exploits Function as a service (FaaS) that is a category of cloud computing services that provides a platform allowing customers to develop, run, and manage application functionalities without the complexity of building and maintaining the infrastructure typically associated with developing and launching an app.Building an application following this model is one way of achieving a "serverless" architecture, and is typically used when building microservices applications.

The Internet of things (IoT) is the network of physical devices, vehicles, home appliances, and other items embedded with electronics, software, sensors, actuators, and connectivity which enables these things to connect, collect and exchange data.

We are interest to efficiently collect and elaborate this data, and produce new data as answer to particular condition computed from the data received. Cloud architectures provides an efficient methods to build this kind of applications.


## Audience
This tutorial is designed for building a computing architecture, based on open-source software,  that allows the users to exploit Function-as-service model in the context of IoT. The idea is provides a system which allows as in Amazon Aws or Microsoft Azure, and so on, to deploy functions that are trigged by events generated from small devices such as sensors and  mobile (IoT devices), commonly these devices communicates using message-passing, in particular on dedicated protocols as AMQP or MQTT.  

The end of this tutorial provides example that deploy a function to log the temperature value received by a sensor on the AMQP protocol, in this example the events are generated by another function executed on the system or outside (this is a semplification, but it is easily to test using a real device that allows to send messages on AMQP protocol).

## Prerequisites
- OS: 
    - Ubuntu 18.04 LTS
- Software:
    - Docker 
    - Docker Compose    
    - Nuclio
    - RabbitMQ (MQTT plugin Enabled)

## Architecture installation on Ubuntu Linux

### Docker

Install Docker using the Docker CE installation [guide](https://docs.docker.com/install/linux/docker-ce/ubuntu/#extra-steps-for-aufs).

```
$ sudo apt-get update
$ sudo apt-get install \
    apt-transport-https \
    ca-certificates \
    curl \
    software-properties-common
$ curl -fsSL https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu/gpg | sudo apt-key add -
$ sudo apt-key fingerprint 0EBFCD88
$ sudo add-apt-repository \
   "deb [arch=amd64] https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu \
   $(lsb_release -cs) \
   stable"
$ sudo apt-get update
$ sudo apt-get install docker-ce
```
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
### Docker Compose
Install Docker Compose using the Docker Compose installation [guide](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/#install-compose).

```
$ sudo curl -L "https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/download/1.22.0/docker-compose-$(uname -s)-$(uname -m)" -o /usr/local/bin/docker-compose
$ sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/docker-compose
```
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
### Nuclio (High-Performance Serverless event and data processing platform)

Start [Nuclio](https://github.com/nuclio/nuclio) using docker.

```
docker run -p 8070:8070 -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock -v /tmp:/tmp nuclio/dashboard:stable-amd64
```
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
### RabbitMQ 

Start [RabbitMQ](https://www.rabbitmq.com) instance with MQTT enabled using docker.
```
sudo docker run -p 9000:15672  -p 1818:1818 -p 5672:5672  cyrilix/rabbitmq-mqtt 
```
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
#### Library for MQTT and MQTT clients

There are different libraries for many languages for interacting with protocol AMQP and MQTT you can use what you want. For JavScript we used this [library](https://github.com/squaremo/amqp.node).
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
